deps/curl/docs/CURL-DISABLE.md, before:

# Code defines to disable features and protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_COOKIES

Disable support for HTTP cookies.

## CURL_DISABLE_CRYPTO_AUTH

Disable support for authentication methods using crypto.

## CURL_DISABLE_DICT

Disable the DICT protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_DOH

Disable DNS-over-HTTPS

## CURL_DISABLE_FILE

Disable the FILE protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_FTP

Disable the FTP (and FTPS) protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_GOPHER

Disable the GOPHER protocol.

## CURL_DISABLE_HTTP

Disable the HTTP(S) protocols. Note that this then also disable HTTP proxy
support.

## CURL_DISABLE_HTTP_AUTH

Disable support for all HTTP authentication methods.

## CURL_DISABLE_IMAP

Disable the IMAP(S) protocols.

## CURL_DISABLE_LDAP

Disable the LDAP(S) protocols.

## CURL_DISABLE_LDAPS

Disable the LDAPS protocol.

## CURL_DISABLE_LIBCURL_OPTION

Disable the --libcurl option from the curl tool.

## CURL_DISABLE_MIME

Disable MIME support.

## CURL_DISABLE_NETRC

Disable the netrc parser.

## CURL_DISABLE_OPENSSL_AUTO_LOAD_CONFIG

Disable the auto load config support in the OpenSSL backend.

## CURL_DISABLE_PARSEDATE

Disable date parsing

## CURL_DISABLE_POP

Disable the POP(S) protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_PROGRESS_METER

Disable the built-in progress meter

## CURL_DISABLE_PROXY

Disable support for proxies

## CURL_DISABLE_RTSP

Disable the RTSP protocol.

## CURL_DISABLE_SHUFFLE_DNS

Disable the shuffle DNS feature

## CURL_DISABLE_SMB

Disable the SMB(S) protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_SMTP

Disable the SMTP(S) protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_TELNET

Disable the TELNET protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_TFTP

Disable the TFTP protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_VERBOSE_STRINGS

Disable verbose strings and error messages.

Commit message:

updated curl to version curl-7_76_0

deps/curl/docs/CURL-DISABLE.md, after:

# Code defines to disable features and protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_ALTSVC

Disable support for Alt-Svc: HTTP headers.

## CURL_DISABLE_COOKIES

Disable support for HTTP cookies.

## CURL_DISABLE_CRYPTO_AUTH

Disable support for authentication methods using crypto.

## CURL_DISABLE_DICT

Disable the DICT protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_DOH

Disable DNS-over-HTTPS

## CURL_DISABLE_FILE

Disable the FILE protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_FTP

Disable the FTP (and FTPS) protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_GETOPTIONS

Disable the `curl_easy_options` API calls that lets users get information
about existing options to `curl_easy_setopt`.

## CURL_DISABLE_GOPHER

Disable the GOPHER protocol.

## CURL_DISABLE_HTTP

Disable the HTTP(S) protocols. Note that this then also disable HTTP proxy
support.

## CURL_DISABLE_HTTP_AUTH

Disable support for all HTTP authentication methods.

## CURL_DISABLE_IMAP

Disable the IMAP(S) protocols.

## CURL_DISABLE_LDAP

Disable the LDAP(S) protocols.

## CURL_DISABLE_LDAPS

Disable the LDAPS protocol.

## CURL_DISABLE_LIBCURL_OPTION

Disable the --libcurl option from the curl tool.

## CURL_DISABLE_MIME

Disable MIME support.

## CURL_DISABLE_MQTT

Disable MQTT support.

## CURL_DISABLE_NETRC

Disable the netrc parser.

## CURL_DISABLE_OPENSSL_AUTO_LOAD_CONFIG

Disable the auto load config support in the OpenSSL backend.

## CURL_DISABLE_PARSEDATE

Disable date parsing

## CURL_DISABLE_POP

Disable the POP(S) protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_PROGRESS_METER

Disable the built-in progress meter

## CURL_DISABLE_PROXY

Disable support for proxies

## CURL_DISABLE_RTSP

Disable the RTSP protocol.

## CURL_DISABLE_SHUFFLE_DNS

Disable the shuffle DNS feature

## CURL_DISABLE_SMB

Disable the SMB(S) protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_SMTP

Disable the SMTP(S) protocols

## CURL_DISABLE_SOCKETPAIR

Disable the use of socketpair internally to allow waking up and canceling
curl_multi_poll().

## CURL_DISABLE_TELNET

Disable the TELNET protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_TFTP

Disable the TFTP protocol

## CURL_DISABLE_VERBOSE_STRINGS

Disable verbose strings and error messages.
